An interview with Brigadier General Mike
Kokonos. Today is Monday, 1st of June. This is
Terry Anderson. Let's start by asking where and
when you were born. I was born in Beaumont, Texas,
February the 2nd, 1920.
General Kokonos prefers Mike P. Kokonos. Why do
you prefer P? Because it's my daddy's name, Pete.
Okay, Pete. Tell me about your father. I like to be
identified with my daddy. Okay, tell me about your
father. Papa... Papa came to Beaumont, Texas
around 1909 from Greece. And he's... Whereabouts
in Greece? He's from Parga, Greece. P-A-R-G-A.
It's the northwest part of Greece. Macedonia? No,
no, Peloponnesus. Yeah, Peloponnesus, or Carfu,
near Carfu, the island of Carfu. And he came to
Beaumont and opened up a restaurant And then he
stayed here a year or two, and then he went back to
Greece and married Mama and brought Mama back to
Beaumont. And this is where we have stayed and
lived ever since they came to Texas. Now, when he
came, why Texas? He had a friend from his hometown
who worked at LaBelle, Texas. He worked on a ranch.
And he told Papa to come on and work with us. And when
Papa got here, he didn't like working out there as a
cowboy. So he came into Beaumont. La Belle is about
five miles outside of Beaumont. Did he keep the
restaurant for his entire life? No. Can you tell me
about that? Yes, he kept the restaurant for
several years. And then the children began to
come, my older brother, GP Coconuts and Jimmy and
myself and he then opened up a grocery store a
confectionary type by the old baseball park on
Magnolia Street and we lived behind the grocery
store or confectionary and we lived behind it and
And he had the restaurant and the confectionery.
And then the Depression hit about 26, well, 29,
somewhere along in there. And he lost the
restaurant and kept the grocery store. And we were
all raised behind this grocery store, my three
brothers and sister, Helen and Andrew and Jimmy
and GP, Janess. And then he had that for a while. And
when he lost it, he got into the bread business. He
was a bread salesman. Oh, really? For a company, or
did he have his own? No, for Purity Bakery. It was a
company here in Beaumont, and he sold bread and
rolls, hot dog rolls and hamburger rolls to the
rest of us, and we used to go as kids to help him do
that. We'd get up in the morning around 2, 33
o'clock in the morning and help Papa pack the rolls
in the truck from the hot ovens. This is during the
Depression? During the Depression, 29, 30, 31,
and And we would make the rounds with him to all the
restaurants and grocery stores that he had and
help him deliver the rolls and deliver the bread,
French bread. And he kept that for a while and then
we finally, we had to give up the grocery store. It
just got too bad. We couldn't handle it anymore and
then we moved into another, right around- In other
words, you weren't making enough money to make it
work? Money to make the grocery store work. And so
we, We moved right, just right around the corner,
half a block away on Hazel Street, 947 Hazel
Street. And to this day, we all still own that
property. And my brother, Janice, has his oil
office there. He's an independent oil operator.
Remodeled it and fixed it up. Now, I'm wondering
about your father's education. Papa, Papa
finished
high school in one year of college in Greece. And
then that's the reason we're all graduates of A&M,
because he insisted that we go to college. It was
his driving force that led us to A&M. And A&M, he
really picked A&M because it was a military
school. It was conservative type. school, which
is his thinking. He was a conservative type
person, and he... Conservative in what way?
Conservative in not, well, in his love for this
country. He thought America was the greatest
country in the world, do anything for it, and he
felt that we would... He never had a longing then to
go back to Greece? Never. He loved it. Except to
marry. Just to marry and get mom and bring her back
here. Mm-hmm. And after he brought her back here,
brought her back to Beaumont, he then went about
raising a family. And we were instilled
by him, the discipline of running a... Oh, you
don't want to stay around here? No, baby, it's on
TV. It's on tape. Oh, that's okay. We'll just erase
anything. I wasn't even there. He was
a
person who kept a low profile, but yet he was
strong-willed and he maintained discipline in
the family. So in other words, you're defining him
as a conservative, as a man who loves his his
country was strong-willed and it was a
disciplinarian. Disciplinarian, right. And
he loved the old country ideas and he thought A&M
was that way. I see, yeah. See, and because he, we
were, I know, I remember as a little kid that people
come talk to Papa about, well, Why don't you send
him to some other schools? Send my older brother.
See, he was in, he was the one that first went to A&M.
And he had gone to, my brother Pete, Janelle, had
gone to some, he'd gone to, let's see, a couple
other schools just to visit. And he hitched tight.
And he'd come back home and he would tell Papa what
they looked like and what the schools were all
about. And Papa said, well, A&M sounds like the
school I'd like to see my sons go to. And so... It's
military. It means it would help you become a good
citizen by being, participating in the military,
and just been there. And so that's how we were led to
go to A&M. Now, was he, was your father ever
involved in the military, either in Greece or in
America? Yeah, he was involved in Greece when the
Turkish See, the Turkish rule in Greece, he was
involved a little while then he left. So he had a
favorable idea of the military before he came to
this country. Right, yeah. So he felt that the
military helped him. That's correct. He felt the
military helped him to help us. So it was really
passed on down to us from him by his training that he
had in the military in Greece. But he never talked
much about it though. When was that? I don't know.
He just, of course we were kids growing up and he was
too busy trying to make a living I guess and we never
really talked much about it except military. He
liked the military. How about the old country? Did
he talk much about what life was? Did you ever ask
your father about what it was like back in the old
country? He did. Of course we were kids. Papa died
awfully young. Yeah. He died... He was 58, and we
were gone in the army when he died in 45. He talked
about life in the old country, but as kids, you
know, it's hard to remember things that he would
tell, but I remember one time he said, well, he
says, it's a good thing we live in America,
otherwise you might have been a goat herder, a goat
tenderer. He says, you'd have been a good one,
because I'd have made you a good one, you know. But
that was another thing he liked about America
then, the mobility. Mobility and the
opportunities that we had here. Yeah. Yeah. Just
great opportunities.
But he liked the simple things of Greece, you know,
the simple things in life. He never dressed
extravagantly. Of course, he couldn't. Things
were tough. Yeah, yeah. And Mama was very prudent
in her running the house. I can remember when he was
selling bread on the bread truck that he gave her 50
cents. He said, now this is for today's meals. And
Mama would walk blocks to the A&P store and the
grocery store. We had a neighborhood grocery
store, but she'd walk blocks to go to the grocery
store to save a few pennies. to buy, you know, beans
or rice or whatever. So she could make that 50 cents
last the whole day. And she could. Oh, yeah. And
so... Could you tell me about her more, your
mother? Could you describe what type of person she
was? She was a small person, but she was...
She loved to help people. I never said anything
like it. She would walk blocks, miles. Somebody
was sick. Yeah, especially her Greek friends that
she knew. She would walk to help them out and spend
the day with them. Even though we were at home, the
kids were at home, she was willing to go out and help
whatever need they needed. And
people liked her. She spoke. She understood
English well, but she still spoke with a Greek
accent.
In our home, we had to talk Greek. Really? That's
how we learned to speak Greek. We'd talk Greek. In
fact, I can remember Mama saying to us in Greek,
you're going to go to school and learn the English
language, but we don't have any Greek school here,
so I'm going to teach you Greek at home. We're going
to all talk Greek. So we'd talk and get home. And, of
course, we would talk English to Mama, so she would
learn how to speak English. Of course, Papa spoke
well. He was very fluent in his English language
and wrote well.
But she would make us talk Greek, so we would learn
it. And thank God we did, because that's the way we
learned. We learned how all of us speak Greek. Who
is the authority in the household? The father.
Papa was. He ran the house. There was no question
about it. No question about it. He was the boss. And
then, of course, he wasn't around. Then the older
brother was the authority. My brother Janelle. We
call him Janelle. It's GP. He finished A&M in 38,
petroleum engineering. And then after Papa died
in 45, the older brother steps in and takes over.
But he, but Papa was the boss. Oh yeah. So it was a
traditional family structure then. Right.
Almost molded on the old country, but modified. By
the American way of life. Oh yeah, it was very
traditional. And we still try to maintain that
today. Speaking Greek, that's rather
interesting because when my
great-great-grandfather came over from
Germany, one of the very first things on my
mother's side, one of the very first things that my
great-great-grandmother did was forbid the
children to speak German because she wanted them
to become Americans. Americans speak American or
English. And so this is rather interesting that
you spoke Greek at home. Yeah, we did. We spoke
Greek at home with Mama And, of course, Papa too
didn't want us to lose that heritage that we had and
traditions. But yet, at the same time, Papa
preached to us that he wanted us to be an American
citizen and be a patriotic American citizen.
America comes first. No second thoughts about
Greece or anything like that. America was first.
And this was his, he used to, of course, later on, he
bought a dinner club out on the highway, and he
would always greet the customers with, God bless
America. Really? Yeah, and a little grease.
That's during the war, during the war in 1941 to
1945.
The Navy had a base in Orange, Texas, and so we had a
lot of Navy personnel, and they traded with him and
patronized his little dinner pub he had out there.
And people from Fort Polk used to come over. Did he
ever go back to Greece on a vacation? Never did.
Neither did Mama. Have you? I have not. Now, my
brother has, and I was on the plane in Rome, Italy,
after the war when I was on occupation duty as a
lieutenant. And I was waiting on a plane in Rome to
fly to Athens to go to Parga in Paxos, where my
mother was from. And I had my pass from the army and
everything. They authorized it because I was a
blood kin. They had a communist uprising. And we
were grounded and we couldn't get over there. So it
knocked me out. And the only way you could get into
Greece, because you know, Germany, just
dominated. I mean, it just slaughtered all these
people. It was incredible what they did to
Germany. And of course, the Greeks put up a very
strong fight with them. And America, the United
States Army's position was they didn't want any
tourists going over there. Of course, they were
communists. Well, it was devastating. It was
devastating. Plus the Civil War. Civil War. See,
they were the communists. But when they found out,
if they found out you had blood kin, then you can get
a special pass. So I was on the plane at Rome. I was
sitting on the plane ready to go. And I had not been,
but my brother's family has been over there. My
sister's been there. But that's interesting that
you haven't been. We talk about going. But you've
got seven kids, Terry. Educating them, you know,
it's pretty hard. And so we were, we'd still think
about going, and we are, we're going to go. My son's
been, my son pays class of 80 at A&M. Went to Papa's
church on Easter Sunday this past year. He was over
there, he took a, when he got out of A&M, he took the
tour, backpacked it. And when he stayed, he stayed
in, in Greece about six weeks. And he celebrated
Easter with my Papa's church and family over
there. Well, that brings me to another topic.
You've been the past president of the St. George
Greek Orthodox Church here. And I was wondering
how or what role that religion played in your
upbringing. Well, it played a very strong
part in my life because we attended the Orthodox
Church ever since we kept baptizing the church.
And it helped me in my military duties because I
always regarded the chaplain as a key staff
advisor. And I always sought his advice and sought
his guidance and commanding. And be surprised.
The chaplains that I talked to were, you know,
couldn't comprehend sometimes why my emphasis
was always with them, because the previous
commanders they had just kind of pushed them
aside. Yeah, pushed them aside. Now, I didn't make
a big, big splash about it. It was always sort of
just like my religions, very conservative and
very traditional. and very orthodox. That's what
we are, Greek orthodox. And so I had the situation
to earn me the same way. It was always a very
low-profile approach with the chaplain, but I
emphasized his use. And I was always,
really, the chaplains always were kind of
surprised that I would seek them. But I did it not
for myself. for the unit or for the personnel. And I
was president five, six years of the church here.
And we have one church in the area, and it's in Port
Offaly, Texas. It's about 22 miles from here. And I
used to load my seven kids, and Catherine and I, and
station away, and off we'd go every Sunday. So it
played, and then Papa. Very important. Papa was
what we call a, A lay reader in church. Only we do it
by chanting. We sing. I don't know if you've ever
been to Greek Orthodoxy. It's all singing. The
priests, the choir, and the chanters. They chant
the prayers. Oh, really? Yes, it's singing. Papa
was a Greek. He did it in Greek while the choir would
do it in English. That's when I was a kid growing up.
And so that always left a strong impression on me.
So my whole family, my brothers, sisters, we all
feel the same way about religion, very strong. And
it has played a very strong part in my life. OK, I was
wondering something else about your Greek
heritage and the fact that you were an immigrant
son. Did you ever feel that you were being
discriminated against in this country? I never
felt it. Even though as kids, we were the only
Greeks in the block. Yeah, I would imagine. This
area doesn't have a large population. No, it
really doesn't. No, I didn't think so. But I never
felt discriminated, except when I got older. Tell
me about it. I run across people who, I'm talking
about maturity, 30, 35, 40 years old, and in the
Army, who would, I got the feeling that people I was
talking to, my superior officers, would kind of
say, Greek, you know. But as a young kid growing up,
I never got that feeling. But I guess it's because
as you get older, it's very competitive, and it
gets, you know, people look for weaknesses in you.
See, and they try to probe your weakness. And they
thought maybe because I was of Greek heritage that
that might be a weakness. Actually, there was a
stronger point in my life. I was strong. Because it
was an inheritance that I had and it was mine. And I
just felt proud. But yet at the same time, I was a you
know, American citizen, born and raised here. Did
your father ever complain? Never. Papa never
complained. You never said anything about that?
No, I never heard Papa complain about it at all. At
all. And neither did Mama. Of course, Mama wasn't
in the civic world like Papa was. Never
complained. But that's interesting that you
realize this in the military because the military
in this country has been... Well, it's been a part
of society, which has taken all types, all races,
colors, and creeds, and put them into one big pot,
sort of the melting pot idea, and really outlawed
discrimination or racism, like what Truman did
for the blacks in the military, by integrating it,
and really... Well, the ethnic composure of a
person, it's just, you... in life, you run across a
few people who resent the fact that, you know,
they're not the same ethnic race as you. And I, like
I said, I didn't feel this until I was older. A&M
loved us. Man, it was just, you know, talk about a
melting pot. A&M was a melting pot, you know. And
there was no discrimination there at all, never.
In fact, they never called me Greek in the A&M. It
was always Coke or Cokie or Mike. In the Army, later
on, I was referred to as, oh, yeah, that Greek major
down there. See, that's what I was telling you
about. Sure. Because, or that Greek colonel.
Because we're battalion commanders in the same
division. You know, you compete. units against
unit, and commanders against commander. It's a
competition. And Kidwell will tell you this. See,
I served with Kidwell for 70 years. He was my
artillery commander. But this is where, this is an
example I'm going to use. Okay. Let's talk for a
minute about your siblings, your brothers and
your sisters and your family. How did you get along
with them? Great. Yes, great. No question about
it. My older brother was the leader, and he was the
boss among the brothers. But we got along fine. We
all lived together. Lived in one room. And we, for a
while, we all lived in one bed. Slept in one bed. The
brothers and sister had one little room. We were a
very modest means of living. A house behind a big
street. I can imagine the depression. Yeah, it was
tough. And we lived in bed. And then one day, Popper
bought another bed. And so we split up. My older
brother and I slept together, and Jimmy, who was
next to the oldest, and Andrew, my younger
brother, slept together. And then when we moved
around the corner to the big house that had one,
two, three bedrooms, we thought we were having
this ride. And so we all grew up playing with each
other and defending each other at the Y. YMCA was a
very important part of my life. My brother's wife.
Why don't we explain that, Tom? Well, I lived about
two blocks from the Y. And we used to go down to the Y
as kids, 10, 11 years old. And that's where we
learned to swim and play football and basketball.
In fact, that's where I learned to play
basketball. They got me my basketball
scholarship at A&M. Really? Yeah. It's at the Y.
And when we had little problems among the kids, you
know, we want to fight, it was always the four
coconuts against whoever wanted to fight us. And
we sold newspapers on the street together. We
would, downtown Beaumont, we'd get up in the
mornings around 4.30, and we'd go down and grab
about 10 newspapers, Beaumont Enterprise, and
we'd go down the corner, like the Edson Hotel
corner, and try to, because there was more traffic
there, and we'd try to sell the papers. And the
other newspaper boys would try to come chase us
all. Well, I just followed them. That's right. I
had to chase all the brothers off. We'd fight them.
Then my brother, Janelle, would go to the Fuller
Cafe corner. That was another one. And the bigger
boys would want to jump in. Well, boy, we'd all run
down there, and first thing you know, we were
fighting these newspaper boys. So we all grew up
together as one. Real close. Real close. Very
close knit. And even today, we go to dances
together, we go to parties together, we go to
socials together, and funerals together. A
friend of ours, we all go together wherever we go.
Honor the governor of Texas, we all go together.
How about rivalry? Did you have much rivalry, or
was it more of a learning, or was it more of a
situation? Not like I had a lot of rivalry with my
brother. It's normal. Yeah, I guess, yeah, it was a
little rivalry. More so, I guess, because Andrew,
my younger brother, and I were close. Because we
were in junior high and high school together, and
we participated in a basketball team. And so there
was a little rivalry there. Swimming team down at
the Y. Andrew
and I. But there wasn't much rivalry between my
older brother, because they were a little older
than we were, and Jimmy. Jimmy and I boxed
together. He was in high school. By the way, he was a
Golden Cup champ. Years ago, my brother Jim and his
former marital... He used you for his punching
bag? He used me for his punching bag. I was in junior
high and he was in high school, and I used to go with
the Beaumont High School boxing team to different
cities, Louisiana, Houston, Galveston, and they
didn't have anybody small enough to fight him, so
they used me. So we would fight. We were always
close, and we'd see who could beat each other.
That's about it. But as far as rivalry, it was just a
very friendly rival type thing. Now, you've had,
there's no doubt about it, you've had a very
successful career. In what way do you think your
parents are responsible for
that? In teaching us self-discipline.
Self-discipline. And teaching us...
how to get along with people.
It's just, Papa was, especially Mama, Mama
talked to us about home life, families, and to get
along. But I think the biggest thing,
self-discipline and to work. Just work.
A work ethic. Just the idea of working. You work.
Whatever you need, you have to work for. You can't
just expect people to hand you something.
Because all my brothers worked. Even my sister.
They're all very successful, grown people now.
They worked at it. Everybody worked. Nobody...
Hard workers. Hard workers, and loved their
country. Papa, boy, he'd talk to us about love of
America all the time. But I think the thing was
self-discipline and work and honesty, be honest.
That's it. Let's move on then to your education.
Can you tell me about your early years? Sure. I went
to Millard Elementary School. First through
the... Millard? M-I-L-L-A-R-D. Millard
Elementary School, which was in the neighborhood
about four blocks from, five blocks from where we
lived. And that was through the first through the
fifth grade. And then went to Dick Dowling Junior
High And it was, uh, uh, Millard was east where we
live, and Dowling was, uh, Dick Dowling was west.
Is that what his name? Dick Dowling, junior high.
Yeah, they, Dick Dowling. The road here? Oh,
Dowling? No, that's D-O-W-L-A. Dick Dowling was a
great Texas hero. Uh, he, uh, fought for the
independence of Texas. Along with Bowie and
Travis and, oh yeah, David Crockett. We have two
junior high schools here. One was named David
Crockett, and that was in the south end, and Dick
Dowling, which was in the north end where we lived
north, sort of north end of Bowman. And then I went
to Bowman High School, 11 grades. Bowman High at
that time had only 11 grades. Really? That's
right. And not 12? Not 12. Why was that? I don't
know. They just changed 12 here, what, maybe 15
years ago. It had not always been 12. It was 11. So
when I finished high school, I was barely 16 years
old. I think I just made 17 in February.
But when I went to A&M, I was 19. I had to lay out two
years, which I'm really glad. I had to wait till my
older brother graduated from A&M before I could
go. Because of? Economics. Oh, sure. And Jimmy,
too. Jimmy had to wait a couple years before he went
to A&M to let Pete, let Janelle get along in grades
before they could help each other with expenses.
But all my schooling was right here in Boulder.
Okay, what were your favorite subjects or topics?
What did you like in school? Basketball.
Oh, I liked...
Gee, I don't know. I'm trying to think about it.
History. History was, I liked history. And math
was not one of my favorites. I learned to do math and
chemistry. I learned it, but they weren't,
chemistry was a, I enjoyed chemistry later on. But
geography and history. I did very well with those.
I liked those. What type of student were you? I was a
very conscientious student, which I learned from
my daddy. And then something else, too, I learned.
Not to miss school. I had an unbelievable
attendance record. Eleven years, almost perfect
attendance. No kidding? No kidding. You didn't
even get sick? I don't remember getting sick. If I
did, I was in school. Because Papa made us go to
school. Boy, if I missed one day of school, if I
tried to miss one day of school, I knew what would
happen. But I'm just, I had almost 11 years of
perfect attendance going to school. And same way
at A&M. I didn't miss class. Just to miss a class,
it's unbelievable. I couldn't believe, I
couldn't think about missing a class. Papa would
whip me good. That brings us to another topic. What
type of discipline did he use on you? Did he use
physical or did he use more psychological
methods? Did he twist your arm physically or
mentally? I hate to use the word physical because
it sounds like abuse. He never abused us, but we
were paddled. Let me put it that way. We were
paddled. Was he big enough to do it? No, but he was a
man enough to do it. Papa wasn't too big, wasn't too
tall, but yeah, we were disciplined. Good. All of
us were. And it was always yes sir and no sir and yes
ma'am and no talk back. Oh, couldn't dare talk back
to either one of them.
But Papa... We'll take discipline action against
all of us. Were you involved, besides basketball,
were you involved in other activities in high
school? Yeah, I was a swimmer. In fact, I was on the
swimming team at A&M. Really? Yeah. So you were on
the basketball and the swimming team? Swimming. I
was a diver. Art Adamson was a coach at A&M. I went
out for breaststroke, and I was pretty good. But he
had two better ones, three better ones, and he
says, how about being a diver? Because he saw me
dive, and I said, sure, I'll dive. And they
overlap. Swimming and basketball overlap. The
seasons did. And I would play basketball during
the week, and then if I had a swim meet, I'd swim.
Coach Corot was my coach, and he said, oh, that's
all right. Go ahead. I didn't mind. I didn't try to
play baseball or try it. I just stuck with
basketball and swimming in high school. And then,
don't mad, but I was cheerleader three years. A
yell leader? Yeah, well, at A&M, I mean, at high
school. Oh, really? Yeah, yell leader, you're
right. But we called them cheerleaders then. That
was my freshman year in high school, ninth, and
then the tenth and eleventh. Really? I was the
first freshman cheerleader Beaumont High's ever
had. I don't know why. I was a good tumbler. I could
do flips. Was it unusual to have a male cheerleader
back then? No. You had two males and two females.
You had four. And so they decided my freshman year,
because I was so small, they'd have five. And I was a
freshman cheerleader. And I used to do the flips
and backflip, frontflips, and handsprings. And
then after that, they had a freshman cheerleader.
We always had five. Would
you consider yourself popular in high school?
Yes, I would. I was popular. I was president of the
student council. No kidding? My senior year in
high school. So, in other words, you were an
organizer and somewhat of a leader from an early
age. I would say that. I mean, not trying to, you
know... In retrospect, yes, I didn't realize it at
the time, but I was a leader. I guess I was. You were
an activist then, really. Yeah, well, I was
captain. You were in activities. I was captain of
the basketball team, and I was head cheerleader
two years, and I was president of the student
faculty advisory group in high school. I wasn't a
very high academic. I made good grades, but I...
What do you mean? B's and C's? B's and C's. But I was,
yeah, I guess you could say I was very active in high
school. I'm just trying to remember some other
things I... Were all your brothers this active in
high school? Were they all leaders? They were all
pretty well active, right. They weren't...
Janelle was on the baseball team in high school.
Jimmy was a boxer. And Andrew was on the varsity
basketball team with me at the same time. And he was
also a cheerleader, too. That's right, he was a
cheerleader. Yeah. And... So it's a whole family
then, of very active people and
community-oriented people. Oh yeah, we were very
community-oriented and very active. And this
continued off into our adulthood. It's
interesting when leaders start thinking of
themselves as leaders and at what time in their
lives they start to take a leadership role. I mean,
some people don't start until they're in their
20s, and some people can never remember when they
weren't involved in a group or on the board of
directors. It's going all the way back from junior
high all the way through. I think, Terry, the thing
that probably, as I look back now, that started me
in this direction I won the, in the fifth grade, I
won the, I was 11 years old, I guess, the American
Legion Citizenship Award. Really? And that was
the... That's significant. That was the first
American Legion Citizenship Award given in
Beaumont, Texas. And I was at Mellon School. And
from that day on, I guess that kind of started me in
the leadership role. Well, how did you win now? Why
did they pick you? I don't know. Well, of course, I
was a good student, and I was polite and nice and
obedient, and I was on a basketball team in
elementary school, and I worked. We did cleanup
work around the school, and I was... I
guess from that day on, I began to get into kind of a
leadership path in junior high. Junior high, the
same way I was captain of the junior high
basketball team. And then
representative on the student council. So I
guess, yeah. Started at a very early age. Now when
you graduated from high school, did you ever think
of anything else but going to college? I mean, was
there any other alternative? Or like you said,
your father kept telling you you're going to
college. Did you ever think of any other
alternative? Not really, except I didn't know
when I was going to go. Yeah. Couldn't afford it.
Couldn't afford it. I finished in 37, high school
in 37, and I had to work. I knew I had to work a year or
two before my old brother got out of A&M, and he got
out, and Jimmy, I had to wait until he was his
senior. So I didn't know when, but I knew I was going
to go to college because Papa wouldn't, he
wouldn't think of anything else. Even though I
was, I finally worked Worked into a good job in
Beaumont. I worked for the Gulf State Utility
Company. I had a good job. And could have stayed.
Papa said, no, you're going to go to where? You're
going to school. You're going to A&M, he would say.
You're going to A&M. So I said, okay. So, 39. Jimmy
was senior then. That's when I went off to school.
And the odd thing about it, McQuillan was coach of a
basketball team. He told me that when I got there,
that he would give me a part-time scholarship,
even though it was a two-year lapse. And so then
when I got there, the coach gave me a scholarship,
and I was kind of surprised because it was two years
from high school. That was a great deal. Yeah. In
other words, you'd say that you always had a rather
firm goal in mind after you graduated from high
school? High school, right. No question about it.
I had a goal and I needed to fulfill that goal. Now we
talked a little bit about how the Depression
affected your family. like waiting until you were
19 before you could go to A&M, and the idea of hard
work. Is there any other way in which this great
economic catastrophe had an impact on your life?
Besides the fact that you were poor and you were
dead. Your dad lost his business. Yeah, Papa lost
his business, sure. He lost his business. It just
taught us to... to be prudent about the way we live.
We don't live high, you know, try to do with what
we've got. Yeah,
it's a story. Do you think you're more frugal
because of the Depression? Are you more
conservative with your money today? My father
certainly has used the Depression. He can't spend
a cent. Oh yeah, I've We're all that. All my
brothers are that way. And sometimes it's not good
because I got a couple brothers that have done very
well. Oh, yeah. I got a bachelor's brother,
Andrew. He's done very well. But he lives... And my
older brother, Pete. See, I keep calling him Pete
and I don't want to call him Pete. His name is
Janess. But Mama called him Janelle, so we call him
Janelle. But anyway... he's made a lot of money off
of it but he's very frugal about his way of life he's
got five kids he's got four girls and a boy and he
teaches them the same thing but I would say the
depression taught me to to use everything I got
fully, not just buy a suit and say, I don't like the
color, I'll buy another one. You want to take a
break right now? Sure.